# Client-Server-Development
Basic Dashboard application implementing a MongoDB database, Python CRUD module, and Dash

#How do you write programs that are maintainable, readable, and adaptable? Especially consider your work on the CRUD Python module from Project One, which you used to connect the dashboard widgets to the database in Project Two. What were the advantages of working in this way? How else could you use this CRUD Python module in the future?

When writing programs I want to make my code as simple and modular as I can. In this project I created a python file to handle the CRUD functionality of the application this file contains the minimum amount of functions to complete this task. I also named each function as specifically and simply as I could making this a very easy file to incorporate into future projects and making the code easy to read and understand. By removing hardcoded variable declarations this CRUD file is easily adaptable and can be used to connect to other databases in the future, one of my primary goals is ensuring that my code modular and reusable for future projects that.   

#How do you approach a problem as a computer scientist? Consider how you approached the database or dashboard requirements that Grazioso Salvare requested. How did your approach to this project differ from previous assignments in other courses? What techniques or strategies would you use in the future to create databases to meet other client requests?

When I approach a clients requirements I take the time to understand what the purpose of each requirement is, this allows me to ensure that my design will help the client efficiently complete the job. There are many ways that a problem can be solved especially in the context of computer science finding the best solution for the client takes some understanding of how the client will be using the application. My approach to this project differs from previous projects in that I was far more fluid through out developement. While working through this course there were many smaller assignments building to this completed project during each assignment I found the simplest solution but made sure that if changes were needed later on I could easily implement them. Every assignment as new information or requirements were added there were changes that had to be made and I was able to make those changes with any major rework. This is something that I wasn't capable of doing before I saw one path forward if something new was added I would create a new function to handle it instead of a simple edit of an existing one mostly out of fear I would mess up what I already have. While still at the earliest levels of computer science I have gained the experience necessary to be more fluid in my approach ultimately allowing me to write more functional code without unnecessary code. In the future when creating a database I would first take my time understanding the users requirements, and researching similar applications to find potentially missing requirements. Once I have a full understanding of the user requirements I would then focus on the different users of the database and what access each user may need, ensuring that the database is kept secure but provides the appropriate functionality. Finally I would make sure that I structure the database in a way that is easy to maintain and interact with.


#What do computer scientists do, and why does it matter? How would your work on this type of project help a company, like Grazioso Salvare, to do their work better?

A simplistic definition of what a computer scienctist does is take a problem and create an efficient solution. This matters because there is so much information it would be impossible to handle it all manually, computer scientists make this manageable. For Grazioso Salvare who look for specific breeds for specific tasks from numerous animal shelters this would be a very time consuming and ultimately expensive task as working hours are wasted searching for dogs, time that could be used elsewhere. Through this simple database and dashboard application the company can quickly and easily filter the data finding candidates within seconds. This allows Grazioso Salvare to spend less time searching for candidates and instead focus on the training process or other important tasks. 
